.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from /usr/include/sys/socket.h, which does not have
.\" any authorship information in it.  It is probably available under the GPL.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.\" Other portions are from the 6.9 (Berkeley) 3/10/91 man page:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Traduction 9/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 10/12/1997 (LDP man-pages 1.18)
.\" Màj 18/05/1999 (LDP man-pages 1.23)
.\" màj 15/01/02 LDP-man-pages 1.47
.\" màj 18/07/03 LDP-man-pages 1.56
.TH BIND 2 "18 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM 
bind \- Fournir un nom à une socket.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int bind(int " sockfd ", struct sockaddr *" my_addr ", socklen_t " addrlen );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bind
fournit à la socket
.IR sockfd ,
l'adresse locale
.IR my_addr .
.I my_addr
est longue de
.I addrlen
octets. Traditionnellement cette opération est appelée "affectation d'un
nom à une socket"
(Quand une socket est créée, par l'appel-système
.BR socket (2),
elle existe dans l'espace des noms mais n'a pas de nom assigné).
.PP
Il est normalement nécessaire d'affecter une adresse locale avec
.B bind
avant qu'une socket
.B SOCK_STREAM
puisse recevoir des connexions (voir
.BR accept (2)).

Les règles d'affectation de nom varient suivant le domaine de communication.
Consultez le manuel Linux section 7 pour de plus amples informations. Pour
.B AF_INET
voir
.BR ip (7),
pour
.B AF_UNIX
voir
.BR unix (7),
pour
.B AF_APPLETALK
voir
.BR ddp (7),
pour
.B AF_PACKET
voir
.BR packet (7),
pour
.B AF_X25
voir
.BR x25 (7)
et pour
.B AF_NETLINK
voir
.BR netlink (7).

.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
L'appel renvoie 0 s'il réussit, ou \-1 s'il échoue, auquel cas
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I sockfd
n'est pas un descripteur valide.
.TP
.B EINVAL
La socket possède déjà une adresse. Ceci peut changer dans l'avenir\ :
voir
.I linux/unix/sock.c
pour les détails.
.TP
.B EACCES
L'adresse est protégée et l'utilisateur n'est pas le Super\-User.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
L'argument est un descripteur de fichier, pas une socket.
.PP
Les erreurs suivantes sont spécifiques aux sockets
du domaine UNIX
.RB ( AF_UNIX ") :"
.TP
.B EINVAL
La longueur
.I addr_len
est fausse, ou la socket n'est pas de la
famille
.B AF_UNIX.
.TP
.B EROFS
L'i\-noeud se trouverait dans un système de fichiers en lecture seule.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I my_addr
pointe en dehors de l'espace d'adresse accessible.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I my_addr
est trop long
.TP
.B ENOENT
Le fichier n'existe pas.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
pas assez de mémoire pour le noyau.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
Un composant du chemin d'accès n'est pas un répertoire.
.TP
.B EACCES
L'accès à un composant du chemin d'accès n'est pas autorisé.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.I my_addr
contient des références circulaires (à travers un lien symbolique).
.SH BOGUES
Les options de proxy transparent ne sont pas décrites.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
SVr4, BSD 4.4 (l'appel système
.B bind
est apparu dans BSD 4.2). SVr4 indique des erreurs générales supplémentaires
.BR EADDRNOTAVAIL ,
.BR EADDRINUSE ,
et
ENOSR,
ainsi que les conditions d'erreurs spécifiques au
domaine
Unix
.B EIO 
et
.BR EISDIR .
.SH NOTE
Le troisième argument de
.B bind
est en fait un int (et c'est ce qu'utilisent BSD 4.*, libc4 et libc5).
Une certaine confusion POSIX résulte du "socklen_t" actuel. Voir
.BR accept (2).
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR accept (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR ip (7),
.BR socket (7).
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
