.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" 
.\" Traduction  10/10/1996 Christophe BLAESS (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" maj 09/04/99 LDP-man-pages 1.22
.\" maj 18/07/03 LDP-man-pages 1.56
.TH GETGID 2 "18 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
getgid, getegid \- Obtenir l'identifiant du groupe.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B gid_t getgid(void);
.br
.B gid_t getegid(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B getgid
retourne le GID réel du processus en cours.

.B getegid
retourne le GID effectif du processus en cours.

Le GID réel correspond au GID du processus appelant, le GID effectif est 
dépendant de l'état
du bit Set\-GID du fichier exécuté.
.SH ERREURS
Ces fonctions réussissent toujours.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR setregid (2),
.BR setgid (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
