.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getsockname.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:30:29 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 11/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" màj 10/12/1997 (LDP man-pages 1.18)
.\" màj 18/05/1999 (LDP man-pages 1.23)
.\" màj 18/07/2003 (LDP man-pages 1.56)
.TH GETSOCKNAME 2 "18 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
getsockname \- Obtenir le nom d'une socket.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int getsockname(int " s ", struct sockaddr *" name ", socklen_t *" namelen )
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Getsockname
renvoie le nom
.I name
de la socket indiquée. Le paramètre
.I namelen
doit être initialisé pour indiquer la taille de la zone mémoire 
pointée par
.IR name .
En retour, il contiendra la taille effective (en octets) du
nom renvoyé.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.BR getsockname
renvoie 0 s'il réussit, ou \-1 s'il échoue, auquel cas
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.  
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EBADF
L'argument
.I s
n'est pas un descripteur valide.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
L'argument
.I s
est un fichier, pas une socket.
.TP
.B ENOBUFS
Pas assez de mémoire pour le noyau
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I name
pointe en dehors de l'espace d'adressage accessible.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
SVr4, BSD 4.4 (la fonction
.B getsockname
est apparue dans BSD 4.2). SVr4 documente des conditions d'erreur
ENOMEM et ENOSR supplémentaires.
.SH NOTE
Le troisième argument de
.B getsockname
est en fait un int (et c'est ce qu'utilisent BSD 4.*, libc4 et libc5).
Une certaine confusion POSIX résulte du "socklen_t" actuel. Les propositions
de standard n'ont pas encore été adoptées, mais glibc2 les suit déjà et
utilise socklen_t. Pour plus de détails voir
.BR accept (2).
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR bind (2), 
.BR socket (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
