.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Michael Kerrisk
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 31 Jan 2002, Michael Kerrisk <mtk16@ext.canterbury.ac.nz>
.\"	Added description of mmap2
.\" MàJ 18/07/2003 LDP-2.56 Christophe Blaess
.TH MMAP2 2 "18 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
mmap2 \- Établir une projection en mémoire d'un fichier ou d'un périphérique.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/mman.h>
.br
.B #include <syscall.h>
.sp
.BI "_syscall6(void *, " début ", size_t, " longueur ", int, " prot ,
.BI "int, " drapeaux ", int, " fd ", off_t, " décalage_en_pages );
.sp
.BI "void * mmap2(void *" début ", size_t " longueur ", int " prot ,
.BI "int " drapeaux ", int " fd ", off_t " décalage_en_pages );
.sp
.B #endif
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.B mmap2
réalise la même opération que
.BR mmap (2),
sauf que l'argument final spécifie un décalage dans le fichier en
nombre de pages système plutôt qu'en octets. 
Ceci permet aux applications d'utiliser un off_t sur 32 bits pour projeter
des fichiers très grands (généralement jusqu'à 2^44 octets).
.SH NOTES
La fonction
.B mmap2
est disponible depuis Linux 2.3.31.
Elles est spécifique à Linux, et ne devrait pas être utilisée dans les
applications portables.
Voir également la fonction
.I mmap64()
qui est partie intégrante du LFS (Large File Summit).
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR getpagesize (2),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR mremap (2),
.BR msync (2),
.BR shm_open (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.RI "Thierry Vignaud <" tvignaud@mandrakesoft.com ">, 2002"
.br
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
