.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Created   Sat Aug 21 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" Traduction 14/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Mise a Jour 15/04/97
.\" Mise a Jour 18/07/2003  LDP-1.56
.TH SIGRETURN 2 "18 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
sigreturn \- Revenir d'un gestionnaire de signaux et nettoyer la pile.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "int sigreturn(unsigned long " __unused );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Quand le noyau Linux crée un cadre de pile pour un gestionnaire
de signaux, un appel à
.B sigreturn
est inséré dans ce cadre de manière à ce que le retour du gestionnaire
appelle
.B sigreturn
avant le retour effectif. Cet appel à
.B sigreturn
nettoie la pile pour que le processus puisse reprendre à l'endroit
ou il a été interrompu.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.B sigreturn
ne revient jamais.
.SH ATTENTION
L'appel
.B sigreturn
est utilisé dans le noyau pour implémenter les gestionnaires de signaux.
Il ne doit 
.B jamais 
être appelé directement. Mieux, l'utilisation de
l'argument
.I __unused
dépend de l'architecture matérielle.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
.B sigreturn
est spécifique à Linux et ne doit pas être employée dans un programme
destiné à être portable.
.SH FICHIERS
/usr/src/linux/arch/i386/kernel/signal.c
.br
/usr/src/linux/arch/alpha/kernel/entry.S
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR kill (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR signal (7)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
