.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)socketpair.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:49:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 13/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 15/04/1997
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 27/06/2005 LDP-1.60
.\"
.TH SOCKETPAIR 2 "18 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
socketpair \- Créer une paire de sockets connectées.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int socketpair(int " d ", int " type ", int " protocol ", int " sv [2]);
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.I socketpair
crée une paire de sockets connectées, sans noms, dans le domaine de
communication
.IR d ,
du
.IR type
indiqué, en utilisant le protocole
.IR protocol .
Les descripteurs correspondants aux deux sockets sont placés dans
.IR sv [0]
et
.IR sv [1].
Les deux sockets ne sont pas différenciables.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.BR socketpair
retourne zéro s'il réussit.
En cas d'échec \-1 est renvoyé, et
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EMFILE
Trop de descripteurs de fichiers utilisés par le processus en cours.
.TP
.B EAFNOSUPPORT
La famille de communication n'est pas supportée sur cette machine.
.TP
.B EPROTONOSUPPORT
La protocole de communication n'est pas supportée sur cette machine.
.TP
.B EOPNOTSUPP
La protocole de communication mentionné ne permet pas la création d'une paire de sockets.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I sv
pointe en dehors de l'espace d'adressage accessible.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
BSD 4.4, SUSv2, POSIX 1003.1-2001.
La fonction
.B socketpair
est apparue dans BSD 4.2. Elle est généralement portable de/vers les systèmes
non-BSD suppportant les clones des sockets BSD (y compris les variantes
de System V).
.SH NOTES
Sous Linux, le seul domaine supportant cet appel est
.BR AF_UNIX
(ou le synonyme,
.BR AF_LOCAL ).
(La plupart des implémentations ont la même restriction).
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR pipe (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR unix (7)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
