.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:26:24 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)]
.\"
.\" Traduction 13/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Mise a Jour 15/04/97
.\" Mise a Jour 04/06/2001 LDP-man-pages-1.36
.\" Mise a Jour 18/07/2003 LDP-man-pages-1.56
.TH STIME 2 "18 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
stime \- Configurer l'horloge du système.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "#define _SVID_SOURCE" " /* glibc2 needs this */"
.br
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "int stime(time_t *" t );
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBstime\fP configure l'horloge interne du système. La valeur
temporelle pointée par \fIt\fP, est mesurée en secondes écoulées
depuis le 1er Janvier 1970 à 00h 00m 00s GMT.
\fBstime()\fP ne peut être exécuté que par le Super\-User.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.BR stime
retourne zéro s'il réussit.
En cas d'échec \-1 est renvoyé, et
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EPERM
L'appelant n'est pas le Super\-User.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVr4, SVID, X/OPEN
.SJ NOTES
Sous la GlibC 2,
.I <time.h>
ne fournit le prototype que lorsque la constante
.B _SVID_SOURCE
est définie.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR date (1)
.BR settimeofday (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
