.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2003 Abhijit Menon-Sen <ams@wiw.org>
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traduction Christophe Blaess, <ccb@club-internet.fr>
.\" MàJ 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.TH TKILL 2 "18 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
tkill \- Envoyer un signal à un processus unique.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.B "_syscall2(int, tkill, pid_t, tid, int, sig)"
.sp
.B int tkill(pid_t tid, int sig);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
L'appel-système 
.BR tkill ()
est analogue à
.BR kill (2),
sauf si le processus en question est membre d'un groupe de threads
(créé en utilisant l'attribut CLONE_THREAD de l'appel-système
.BR clone (2)).
Comme tous les processus d'un groupe de threads ont le même PID,
ils ne peuvent pas être visés individuellement avec
.BR kill .
Avec
.B tkill
toutefois, on peut s'adresse à un processus donné grâce à son
TID unique.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
S'il réussit l'appel renvoie zéro, sinon il renvoie \-1 et remplit
.I errno
avec le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EINVAL
Le TID ou le numéro de signal sont invalides.
.TP
.B ESRCH
Il n'y a pas de processus avec le TID indiqué.
.TP
.B EPERM
L'appelant n'a pas la permission d'envoyer un signal au processus indiqué.
Pour qu'un processus ait le droit d'envoyer un signal, il doit avoir les
privilèges root, ou son UID réel ou effectif doit être égal à l'UID
réel ou sauvé du processus récepteur.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
.B tkill
est spécifique à Linux et ne doit pas être utilisé dans un programme conçu
pour être portable.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR gettid (2),
.BR kill (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 2003.
