.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" 'ftime' is implemented as a library function.
.\" 'ulimit' is implemented as a library function.
.\"
.\" Traduction 16/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Mise à jour 12/12/1998 - LDP-man-pages-1.21
.\" Mise à jour 18/07/2003 - LDP-man-pages-1.56
.\"
.TH UNIMPLEMENTED 2 "18 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
afs_syscall, break, ftime, getpmsg, gtty, lock, mpx, prof, profil, putmsg, security, stty, ulimit \- Appels systèmes non implémentés.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Ces appels systèmes ne sont pas implémentés dans le noyau Linux 2.4.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Tous ces appels systèmes renvoient \-1 et
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur
.BR ENOSYS .
.SH NOTE
Remarquez que
.IR ftime (3),
.IR profil (3),
et
.IR ulimit (3)
sont implémentés comme des fonctions de bibliothèque.

Certains appels-systèmes comme
.IR alloc_hugepages (2),
.IR free_hugepages (2),
.IR ioperm (2),
.IR iopl (2),
et 
.IR vm86 (2)
n'existent que sur certaines architectures.

Certains appels-systèmes comme
.IR ipc (2),
et
.IR {create,init,delete}_module (2)
n'existent que si le noyau Linux a été compilé avec les options de support
adéquates.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR obsolete (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
