.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH DIRFD 3 "5 janvier 2002" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
dirfd \- Obtenir un descripteur fichier pour un répertoire.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "int dirfd(DIR *" rep );
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.BR dirfd ()
renvoie le descripteur de fichier associé au flux de répertoire
.IR rep .
.SH ERREURS
En cas d'erreur, \-1 est renvoyé.
.SH NOTES
Le prototype de
.BR dirfd ()
n'est disponible que si
.B _BSD_SOURCE
ou
.B _SVID_SOURCE
est définie (de manière explicite, ou implicite, en ne définissant pas
_POSIX_SOURCE ou en compilant avec l'option -ansi).
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
Ceci est une extension BSD, présente dans BSD-Reno 4.3, mais pas dans
BSD 4.2. Elle est également présente dans la libc5 (depuis la version
5.1.2) et dans la glibc2.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR open (2),
.BR closedir (3),
.BR opendir (3),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR scandir (3),
.BR seekdir (3),
.BR telldir (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Thierry Vignaud
<tvignaud AT mandriva DOT com> en 2002
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ dirfd\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
