.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ferror.3	6.8 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 14:24:40 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Added remark on EBADF for fileno, aeb, 2001-03-22
.\"
.\" Traduction 23/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 04/06/2001 LDP-1.36
.\" Màj 25/01/2002 LDP-1.47
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 27/06/2005 LDP-1.60
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH FERROR 3 "16 octobre 2001" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
ferror, clearerr, feof, fileno \- Vérifier et réinitialiser les états d'un flux.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "void clearerr (FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "int feof (FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "int ferror (FILE *" stream );
.br
.BI "int fileno (FILE *" stream );
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.BR clearerr ()
efface les indicateurs d'erreur et de fin de fichier du flux pointé par
.IR stream .
.PP
La fonction
.BR feof ()
teste l'indicateur de fin de fichier concernant le flux pointé par
.IR stream ,
et renvoie une valeur non nulle si cet indicateur est actif. L'indicateur
de fin de fichier ne peut être réinitialisé que par la fonction
.BR clearerr .
.PP
La fonction
.BR ferror ()
teste l'indicateur d'erreur concernant le flux pointé par
.IR stream ,
et envoie une valeur non nulle si cet indicateur est actif. L'indicateur
d'erreur ne peut être réinitialisé que par la fonction
.BR clearerr ().
.PP
La fonction
.BR fileno ()
renvoie le descripteur de fichier, de type entier, correspondant au flux
.IR stream .
.PP
Pour les versions de ces fonctions ignorant les verrouillages, voir
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH ERREURS
Ces fonctions ne devraient pas échouer, et ne positionnent donc pas
la variable
.IR errno .
(Toutefois, si
.BR fileno ()
détecte que son argument n'est pas un flux valide, il doit renvoyer
\-1 et remplir
.I errno
avec
.BR EBADF .)
.SH CONFORMITÉ
Les fonctions
.BR clearerr (),
.BR feof (),
et
.BR ferror ()
sont conformes à X3.159-1989 (``ANSI C'').
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR open (2),
.BR stdio (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 23\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ ferror\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
