.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fflush.3	5.4 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:22:01 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.\" Modified 2000-07-22 by Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\" Modified 2001-10-16 by John Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.\"
.\" Traduction 23/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/1997
.\" Màj 30/08/2000 LDP-1.31
.\" Màj 04/06/2001 LDP-1.36
.\" Màj 25/01/2002 LDP-1.47
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH FFLUSH 3 "29 novembre 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
fflush \- Vider les tampons d'un flux.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fflush (FILE *" flux );
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.BR fflush ()
force l'écriture de toutes les données se trouvant dans les tampons de l'espace utilisateur, et met à jour le
.I flux
à travers la fonction sous-jacente d'écriture. Le statut d'ouverture du
flux n'est pas affecté.
.PP
Si l'argument
.I flux
est
.BR NULL ,
.BR fflush ()
vide
.I tous
les flux en sortie.
.PP
Pour une version de cette fonction ignorant les verrouillages, voir
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Si elle réussit intégralement, cette fonctions renvoie 0. Sinon,
elle renvoie
.BR EOF ,
et la variable
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EBADF
.I flux
n'est pas ouvert, ou du moins pas en écriture.
.PP
La fonction
.BR fflush ()
peut aussi échouer, et positionner dans
.I errno
n'importe quelles erreurs spécifiées dans la routine
.BR write (2).
.SH NOTES
Remarquez que
.BR fflush ()
ne vide que les tampons fournis par la bibliothèque C dans l'espace utilisateur.
Pour s'assurer que les données sont écrites physiquement sur le disque, il faut
vider les tampons du noyau à l'aide par exemple de
.BR sync (2)
ou
.BR fsync (2).
.SH CONFORMITÉ
La fonction
.BR fflush ()
est conforme à ANSI X3.159-1989 (``ANSI C'').
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR fsync (2),
.BR sync (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fclose (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR setbuf (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 23\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ fflush\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
