.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fread.3	6.6 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:37:33 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sun Feb 19 21:26:54 1995 by faith, return values
.\" Modified Thu Apr 20 20:43:53 1995 by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\" Modified Fri May 17 10:21:51 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\"
.\" Traduction 23/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 11/12/1997 LDP-1.18
.\" Màj 06/06/2001 LDP-1.36
.\" Màj 25/01/2002 LDP-1.47
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH FREAD 3 "17 mai 1996" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
fread, fwrite \- Entrées-sorties binaires sur un flux.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t fread (void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " nmemb ,
.BI "FILE *" stream );
.sp
.BI "size_t fwrite (const void *" ptr ", size_t " size ", size_t " nmemb ,
.BI "FILE *" stream );
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.BR fread ()
lit
.I nmemb
éléments de données, chacun d'eux représentant
.I size
octets de long, depuis le flux pointé par
.IR stream ,
et les stocke à l'emplacement pointé par
.IR ptr .
.PP
La fonction
.BR fwrite ()
écrit
.I nmemb
éléments de données, chacun d'eux représentant
.I size
octet de long, dans le flux pointé par
.IR stream ,
après les avoir lus depuis l'emplacement pointé par
.IR ptr .
.PP
Pour des versions de ces fonctions ignorant les verrouillages, voir
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.BR fread ()
et
.BR fwrite ()
renvoient
le nombre d'éléments correctement lus ou écrits (et non pas le nombre d'octets).
Si une erreur se produit, ou si la fin du fichier est atteinte en lecture,
le nombre renvoyé est plus petit que
.I nmemb
et peut même être nul.
.PP
.BR fread ()
traite la fin du fichier comme une erreur, et l'appelant devra appeler
.BR feof (3)
ou
.BR ferror (3)
pour distinguer ce cas.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
Les fonctions
.BR fread ()
et
.BR fwrite ()
sont conformes à ANSI X3.159-1989 (``ANSI C'').
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR feof (3),
.BR ferror (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 23\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ fread\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
