.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getloadavg.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" Traduction 06/05/2002 par Stéphan Rafin (stephan.rafin@laposte.net)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH GETLOADAVG 3 "4 juin 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
getloadavg \- Renvoie les moyennes de la charge du système.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int getloadavg(double " loadavg[] ",  int " nelem );
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.BR getloadavg ()
renvoie le nombre de processus présents dans la file des processus prêts
du système. Ce nombre est une moyenne réalisée sur diverses périodes.
Jusqu'à
.I nelem
acquisitions sont réalisées et affectées aux éléments successifs de
.IR loadavg  [].
Le système impose un maximum de 3 échantillonnages, représentant des moyennes
sur respectivement la dernière minute, les 5 dernières minutes et les 15
dernières minutes.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Si la charge moyenne n'a pas pu être obtenue, on renvoie \-1\ ; sinon,
le nombre d'acquisitions effectivement réalisées est renvoyé.
.SH VOIR AUSSI
.BR uptime (1),
.BR proc (5)
.SH HISTORIQUE
La fonction
.BR getloadavg ()
est apparue dans Reno 4.3.
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Stéphan Rafin
<stephan DOT rafin AT laposte DOT net> le 6\ mai\ 2002
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ getloadavg\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
