.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" This replaces an earlier man page written by Walter Harms
.\" <walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de>.
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH GETUMASK 3 "25 août 2002" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
getumask \- Renvoyer le masque de permission pour la création de fichier.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <sys/types.h>"
.br
.B "#include <sys/stat.h>"
.sp
.B "mode_t getumask(void);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cette fonction renvoie le masque de permissions utilisé lors de la
création d'un fichier. Elle est équivalente à
.RS
.nf
mode_t getumask(void) {
	mode_t mask = umask(0);
	umask(mask);
	return mask;
}
.fi
.RE
excepté qu'elle est explicitement prévue pour pouvoir être utilisée de
manière saine dans le contexte d'une application multi-threads
(elle partage un sémaphore avec la fonction \fBumask\fP()).
.SH NOTES
Cette fonction est documentée mais non encore implémentée dans la
glibc version 2.2.5.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
Ceci est une extension GNU peu utilisée.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR umask (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Thierry Vignaud
<tvignaud AT mandriva DOT com> en 2002
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ getumask\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
