.\" (c) 1995 by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\"
.\" Traduction 03/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 06/06/2001 LDP-1.36
.\" Màj 25/01/2002 LDP-1.47
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH GETW 3 "16 septembre 1995" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
getw, putw \- Lecture et écriture de mots (ints).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int getw (FILE * " stream );
.nl
.BI "int putw (int " w ", FILE * " stream );
.nl
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgetw\fP() lit un mot (c'est-à-dire un entier \fBint\fP) depuis le flux
\fIstream\fP. Cette fonction est fournie pour des raisons de compatibilité
avec SVID. Nous recommandons l'utilisation de \fBfread\fP(3) à sa place.
.PP
\fBputw\fP() écrit un mot (c'est-à-dire un entier \fBint\fP) dans le flux
\fIstream\fP. Cette fonction est fournie pour des raisons de compatibilité
avec SVID. Nous recommandons l'utilisation de \fBfwrite\fP(3) à sa place.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Normalement, \fBgetw\fP() renvoie le mot lu, et \fBputw\fP() renvoie 0.
En cas d'erreur, ils renvoient \fBEOF\fP.
.SH BOGUES
La valeur renvoyée en cas d'erreur est aussi une valeur légitime pour une
donnée. On peut utiliser \fBferror\fP(3) pour distinguer ces cas.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR fread (3),
.BR fwrite (3),
.BR ferror (3),
.BR getc (3),
.BR putc (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 3\ novembre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ getw\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
