.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:08:17 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 04/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 27/06/2005 LDP-1.60
.\" Màj 14/12/2005 LDP-1.65
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH J0 3 "25 août 2002" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
j0, j0f, j0l, j1, j1f, j1l, jn, jnf, jnl, y0, y0f, y0l, y1, y1f, y1l, yn, ynf, ynl \- Fonctions de Bessel.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double j0 (double " x );
.sp
.BI "double j1 (double " x );
.sp
.BI "double jn (int " n ", double " x );
.sp
.BI "double y0 (double " x );
.sp
.BI "double y1 (double " x );
.sp
.BI "double yn (int " n ", double " x );
.sp
.BI "float j0f (float " x );
.br
.BI "float j1f (float " x );
.br
.BI "float jnf (int " n ", float " x );
.br
.BI "float y0f (float " x );
.br
.BI "float y1f (float " x );
.br
.BI "float ynf (int " n ", float " x );
.sp
.BI "long double j0l (long double " x );
.br
.BI "long double j1l (long double " x );
.br
.BI "long double jnl (int " n ", long double " x );
.br
.BI "long double y0l (long double " x );
.br
.BI "long double y1l (long double " x );
.br
.BI "long double ynl (int " n ", long double " x );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Les fonctions \fBj0\fP() et \fBj1\fP() renvoient les valeurs des fonctions
de Bessel de la première espèce, respectivement d'ordre 0 et 1, pour
la variable réelle \fIx\fP. La fonction \fBjn\fP() renvoie la valeur de la
fonction de Bessel de la première espèce d'ordre \fIn\fP, pour la variable
réelle \fIx\fP.
.PP
Les fonctions \fBy0\fP() et \fBy1\fP() renvoient les valeurs des fonctions
de Bessel de la seconde espèce, respectivement d'ordre 0 et 1, pour
la variable réelle \fIx\fP. La fonction \fByn\fP() renvoie la valeur de la
fonction de Bessel de la seconde espèce d'ordre \fIn\fP, pour la variable
réelle \fIx\fP.
.PP
Pour les fonctions \fBy0\fP(), \fBy1\fP() et \fByn\fP(), la valeur de \fIx\fP
doit être positive. Si \fIx\fP est négatif, ces fonctions renvoient \-HUGE_VAL.
.PP
Les fonctions \fBj0f\fP(), etc. ainsi que \fBj0l\fP() etc. en sont des versions
qui prennent en argument et renvoient des valeurs de type float ou long double.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
Les fonctions renvoyant des valeurs de type double se conforment à SVID 3,
BSD 4.3, XPG4, et POSIX 1003.1-2001. Les autres fonctions sont prérequises
pour C99.
.SH BOGUES
Il peut y avoir une erreur allant jusqu'à 2e\-16 dans les valeurs renvoyées
par \fBj0\fP(), \fBj1\fP() et \fBjn\fP() pour \fIx\fP compris entre \-8 et 8.
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 4\ novembre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ j0\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
