.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:04:55 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 04/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 25/01/2002 LDP-1.47
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 08/07/2005 LDP-1.63
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH KILLPG 3 "4 avril 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
killpg \- Envoi d'un signal à tous les membres d'un groupe du processus.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int killpg (pid_t " pidgrp ", int " signal );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.BR killpg ()
envoie le
.I signal
à tous les processus du groupe
.I pidgrp
ou à ceux du groupe du processus appelant si
.I pidgrp
vaut zéro.
.PP
Cette fonction est équivalente à\ :
.nf
.sp
.BI kill(\- pidgrp , signal );
.fi
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction
.BR killpg ()
renvoie 0 si elle réussit, ou \-1 si elle échoue, auquel cas
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EINVAL
Numéro de signal invalide.
.TP
.B ESRCH
Groupe de processus inexistant.
.TP
.B EPERM
L'UID du processus appelant n'est pas celui du processus auquel le
signal est envoyé, et n'est pas non plus le super-utilisateur.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
BSD
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR kill (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR signal (7)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 4\ novembre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ killpg\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
