.\" Copyright 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traduction 07/06/2001 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" LDP-1.37
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH LROUND 3 "31 mai 2001" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
lround, lroundf, lroundl, llround, llroundf, llroundl \- Arrondir à l'entier le plus proche.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "long int lround(double " x );
.br
.BI "long int lroundf(float " x );
.br
.BI "long int lroundl(long double " x );
.sp
.BI "long long int llround(double " x );
.br
.BI "long long int llroundf(float " x );
.br
.BI "long long int llroundl(long double " x );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Ces fonctions arrondissent \fIx\fP à l'entier le plus proche, en s'éloignant
de zéro, quelque soit la direction actuelle d'approximation.
Si \fIx\fP est infini ou NaN, ou si la valeur arrondie est en dehors
de l'intervalle couvert par le type de retour, le résultat est indéterminé.
Une erreur de domaine peut se produire si \fIx\fP est trop grand.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La valeur arrondie.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EDOM
La valeur absolue de \fIx\fP est trop grande et
.I "(math_errhandling & MATH_ERRNO)"
n'est pas nul.
.SH NOTES
Pour utiliser les fonctions de la bibliothèque mathématique, il ne faut
pas oublier d'ajouter l'argument \fI\-lm\fP sur la ligne de commande de
\fBcc\fP(1) ou \fBld\fP(1), lors de l'édition des liens.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
C99
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR ceil (3),
.BR floor (3),
.BR lrint (3),
.BR nearbyint (3),
.BR rint (3),
.BR round (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 7\ juin\ 2001
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ lround\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
