.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified 1993-04-02, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified 1993-07-25, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 05/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 04/07/2005 LDP-1.61
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH ON_EXIT 3 "2 avril 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
on_exit \- Programmer une fonction à appeler à la fin normale du programme.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int on_exit (void (*" fonction ")(int , void *), void *" arg );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBon_exit\fP() enregistre la \fIfonction\fP() pour qu'elle
soit appelée lors de la fin normale du programme, soit par l'appel à
.BR exit (2),
soit lors du retour de la fonction \fBmain\fP().
La \fIfonction\fP() reçoit l'argument transmis à
.BR exit (3)
et l'argument \fIarg\fP transmis à \fBon_exit\fP().
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBon_exit\fP() renvoie 0 si elle réussit ou \-1 si elle échoue.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
Cette fonction provient de SunOS 4, mais est également présente dans libc4,
libc5 et les glibc. Elle n'apparaît plus dans Solaris (SunOS 5).
Évitez d'utiliser cette fonction pour lui préférer la fonction standard
.BR atexit (3).
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR atexit (3),
.BR exit (3),
.BR _exit (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 5\ novembre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ on_exit\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
