.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:46:01 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 11 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Traduction 05/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 14/12/1998 LDP-1.21
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH OPENDIR 3 "11 juin 1995" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
opendir \- Ouvrir un répertoire.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "DIR *opendir (const char *" name );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBopendir\fP() ouvre un flux répertoire correspondant au
répertoire \fIname\fP, et renvoie un pointeur sur ce flux. Le flux est
positionné sur la première entrée du répertoire.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBopendir\fP() renvoie un pointeur sur le flux répertoire
ou NULL si une erreur se produit.
.SH "ERREURS"
.TP
.B EACCESS
Accès interdit.
.TP
.B EMFILE
Trop de descripteurs de fichiers pour le processus en cours.
.TP
.B ENFILE
Trop de fichiers ouverts simultanément sur le système.
.TP
.B ENOENT
Le répertoire n'existe pas, ou \fIname\fP est une chaîne vide.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Pas assez de mémoire.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
\fIname\fP n'est pas un répertoire
.SH NOTES
Le descripteur sous-jacent à un flux répertoire peut être obtenu avec
.BR dirfd (3).
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR open (2),
.BR closedir (3),
.BR dirfd (3),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR scandir (3),
.BR seekdir (3),
.BR telldir (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 5\ novembre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ opendir\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
