.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:43:46 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 05/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 20/07/2005 LDP-1.64
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH PUTPWENT 3 "9 avril 19993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
putpwent \- Ecrire un enregistrement dans un fichier de mots de passe.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <pwd.h>
.sp
.BI "int putpwent (const struct passwd *" p ", FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBputpwent\fP() écrit un enregistrement fourni par la structure
\fIp\fP dans le fichier associé au flux \fIstream\fP.
.PP
La structure \fIpasswd\fP est définie ainsi dans \fI<pwd.h>\fP\ :
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct passwd {
  char   *pw_name;   /* Nom d'utilisateur             */
  char   *pw_passwd; /* Mot de passe crypté           */
  uid_t   pw_uid;    /* ID de l'utilisateur           */
  gid_t   pw_gid;    /* ID du groupe de l'utilisateur */
  char   *pw_gecos;  /* Nom réel de l'utilisateur     */
  char   *pw_dir;    /* Répertoire de connexion       */
  char   *pw_shell;  /* Programme Shell de connexion  */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBputpwent\fP() renvoie 0 si elle réussit, ou \-1 si une
erreur se produit.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EINVAL
Argument invalide (NULL).
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID 3
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR fgetpwent (3),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR setpwent (3),
.BR endpwent (3),
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR getpwuid (3),
.BR getpw (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 5\ novembre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ putpwent\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
