.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Mike Battersby
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by aeb, 960721
.\"
.\" Traduction 07/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 06/06/2001 LDP-1.36
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH SIGSETOPS 3 "24 septembre 1994" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
sigsetops, sigemptyset, sigfillset, sigaddset, sigdelset, sigismember \- Opérations sur les ensembles de signaux POSIX.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp 2
.BI "int sigemptyset (sigset_t *" set );
.sp
.BI "int sigfillset (sigset_t *" set );
.sp
.BI "int sigaddset (sigset_t *" set ", int " signum );
.sp
.BI "int sigdelset (sigset_t *" set ", int " signum );
.sp
.BI "int sigismember (const sigset_t *" set ", int " signum );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Les fonctions
.BR sigsetops (3)
permettent la manipulation des ensembles de signaux POSIX.
.PP
.BR sigemptyset ()
vide l'ensemble de signaux fourni par
.IR set ,
tous les signaux étant exclus de cet ensemble.
.PP
.BR sigfillset ()
remplit totalement l'ensemble de signaux
.I set
en incluant tous les signaux.
.PP
.BR sigaddset ()
et
.BR sigdelset ()
ajoutent ou suppriment respectivement le signal
.I signum
de l'ensemble
.IR set .
.PP
.BR sigismember ()
teste si le signal
.I signum
est membre de l'ensemble
.I set.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.BR sigemptyset "(), " sigfillset "(), " sigaddset ()
et
.BR sigdelset ()
renvoient 0 s'il réussissent, et \-1 s'ils échouent.
.PP
.BR sigismember ()
renvoie 1 si le signal
.I signum
est dans l'ensemble
.IR set ,
0 si
.I signum
n'y est pas, et \-1 en cas d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I sig
n'est pas un signal valide.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
POSIX
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigpending (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR sigsuspend (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 7\ novembre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ sigsetops\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
