.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 12:51:24 1993, David Metcalfe
.\"
.\" Traduction 09/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 26/01/2002 LDP-1.47
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 04/07/2005 LDP-1.61
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH STRCHR 3 "12 avril 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
strchr, strrchr \- Rechercher un caractère dans une chaîne.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strchr (const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.BI "char *strrchr (const char *" s ", int " c );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBstrchr\fP() renvoie un pointeur sur la première occurrence
du caractère \fIc\fP dans la chaîne \fIs\fP.
.PP
La fonction \fBstrrchr\fP() renvoie un pointeur sur la dernière occurrence
du caractère \fIc\fP dans la chaîne \fIs\fP.
.PP
Pour ces fonctions, «\ caractère\ » signifie «\ octet\ »\ ; elles ne marchent pas
avec des caractères larges ou multi-octets.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Les fonctions \fBstrchr\fP() et \fBstrrchr\fP() renvoient un pointeur
sur le caractère correspondant, ou NULL si le caractère n'a pas été trouvé.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR index (3),
.BR memchr (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR strtok (3),
.BR wcschr (3),
.BR wcsrchr (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 9\ novembre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ strchr\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
