.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:54:31 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 09/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH STRING 3 "9 avril 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
string, strcasecmp, strcat, strchr, strcmp, strcoll, strcpy, strcspn, strdup, strfry, strlen, strncat, strncmp, strncpy, strncasecmp, strpbrk, strrchr, strsep, strspn, strstr, strtok, strxfrm, index, rindex \- Opérations sur les chaînes de caractères.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <strings.h>
.sp
.BI "int strcasecmp (const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 );
.sp
.BI "int strncasecmp (const char *" s1", const char *" s2 ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "char * index (const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.BI "char *rindex (const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strcat (char *" dest ", const char *" src );
.sp
.BI "char *strchr (const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.BI "int strcmp (const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 );
.sp
.BI "int strcoll (const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 );
.sp
.BI "char *strcpy (char *" dest ", const char *" src );
.sp
.BI "size_t strcspn (const char *" s ", const char *" reject );
.sp
.BI "char *strdup (const char *" s );
.sp
.BI "char *strfry (char *" string );
.sp
.BI "size_t strlen (const char *" s );
.sp
.BI "char *strncat (char *" dest ", const char *" src ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "int strncmp (const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "char *strncpy (char *" dest ", const char *" src ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "char *strpbrk (const char *" s ", const char *" accept );
.sp
.BI "char *strrchr (const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.BI "char *strsep (char **" stringp ", const char *" delim );
.sp
.BI "size_t strspn (const char *" s ", const char *" accept );
.sp
.BI "char *strstr (const char *" haystack ", const char *" needle );
.sp
.BI "char *strtok (char *" s ", const char *" delim );
.sp
.BI "size_t strxfrm (char *" dest ", const char *" src ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Ces fonctions effectuent diverses opérations sur des chaînes
de caractères se terminant par un caractère nul. Voyez les pages
de manuel individuelles pour plus de détails.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR index (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR strcasecmp (3),
.BR strcat(3),
.BR strchr (3)
.BR strcmp (3),
.BR strcoll (3),
.BR strcpy(3),
.BR strcspn (3),
.BR strdup (3),
.BR strfry (3),
.BR strlen (3),
.BR strncat (3),
.BR strncmp (3),
.BR strncpy (3),
.BR strncasecmp (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strrchr (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR strtok (3),
.BR strxfrm (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 9\ novembre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ string\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
