.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:41:28 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 10/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 28/04/1998 LDP-1.19
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH STRXFRM 3 "12 avril 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
strxfrm \- Transformations de chaînes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t strxfrm (char *" dest ", const char *" src ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBstrxfrm\fP() transforme la chaîne \fIsrc\fP de telle manière
que le résultat de \fBstrcmp\fP() sur deux chaînes ayant été modifiées
par \fBstrxfrm\fP() soit le même que le résultat de
\fBstrcoll\fP() sur les deux chaînes avant leur transformation. Les
\fIn\fP premiers caractères de la chaîne transformée sont placés dans
\fIdest\fP. La transformation est effectuée en considérant la
catégorie \fILC_COLLATE\fP de la localisation en cours.
(voir \fBsetlocale\fP(3)).
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBstrxfrm\fP() renvoie le nombre d'octets nécessaires pour
stocker la chaîne transformée \fIdest\fP sans compter le caractère nul
«\ \\0\ » final. Si la valeur renvoyée est supérieure ou égale à \fIn\fP,
le contenu de \fIdest\fP est indéfini.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH NOTES
Dans les localisations \fI"POSIX"\fP ou \fI"C"\fP, \fBstrxfrm\fP() est
équivalent à une copie avec \fBstrncpy\fP().
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR bcmp (3),
.BR memcmp (3),
.BR strcasecmp (3),
.BR strcmp (3),
.BR strcoll (3),
.BR setlocale (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 10\ novembre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ strxfrm\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
