.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:45:39 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2000-02-13 by Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\"
.\" Traduction 05/12/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH TOUPPER 3 "4 avril 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
toupper, tolower \- Conversion de lettres en majuscules ou minuscules.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int toupper (int " c );
.nl
.BI "int tolower (int " c );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR toupper ()
convertit la lettre
.I c
en majuscule si c'est possible.
.PP
.BR tolower ()
convertit la lettre
.I c
en minuscule si c'est possible.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La valeur renvoyée est celle de la lettre convertie, ou bien
.I c
si la conversion n'était pas possible.
.PP
Si
.I c
n'est ni un caractère non-signé, ni EOF, le comportement de ces
fonctions est imprévisible.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
ANSI C, BSD 4.3
.SH "BOGUES"
La définition de «\ majuscule\ » et «\ minuscule\ » dépend de la localisation.
Par exemple, la localisation
.B """C"""
par défaut ne connait rien concernant les accents, et n'effectue alors
aucune conversion.
.PP
Dans certaines langues, des lettres minuscules n'ont pas d'équivalent
majuscule.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR isalpha (3),
.BR setlocale (3),
.BR locale (7)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 5\ décembre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 3\ toupper\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
