.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:40:31 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 22/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 30/07/2003 LDP-1.58
.\" Màj 20/07/2005 LDP-1.64
.\"
.TH ATANH 3 "30 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
atanh, atanhf, atanhl \- Fonction arctangente hyperbolique.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double atanh (double " x );
.BI "float atanhf (float " x );
.BI "long double atanhl (long double " x );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBatanh()\fP calcule l'arctangente hyperbolique de
\fIx\fP, c'est à dire la valeur dont la tangente hyperbolique est \fIx\fP.
Si la valeur absolue de \fIx\fP est supérieure à 1.0, \fBacosh()\fP renvoie
la valeur NaN (Not a Number), et \fIerrno\fP contient le code d'erreur EDOM.
.SH "ERREURS"
.TP
.B EDOM
La valeur absolue de \fIx\fP est supérieure à 1.0.
.SH NOTES
Pour utiliser les fonctions de la bibliothèque mathématique, il ne faut
pas oublier d'ajouter l'argument \fI-lm\fP sur la ligne de commande de
\fBcc\fP(1) ou \fBld\fP(1), lors de l'édition des liens.

[Ndt] : Pour mémoire, mathématiquement (je ne connais pas l'implémentation),
l'arctangente hyperbolique d'une variable x, dont la valeur absolue est
strictement inférieure à 1 vaut\ :

atanh (x) = 1/2 ln ( (1 + x) / (1 - x) )

.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899.
Les variantes float et long double sont des demandes C99.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR asinh (3),
.BR acosh (3),
.BR cosh (3),
.BR sinh (3),
.BR tanh (3)

.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
