.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified 1993-03-29, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified 1993-07-24, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2003-10-25, Walter Harms
.\"
.\" Traduction 22/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 19/07/1997
.\" Màj 11/12/1997 LDP-1.18)
.\" Màj 04/06/2001 LDP-1.36
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 04/07/2005 LDP-1.61
.\"
.TH ATEXIT 3 "1er novembre 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
atexit \- Enregistrer une fonction à invoquer à la fin du programme.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int atexit (void (*" fonction )(void));
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBatexit()\fP enregistre la \fIfonction\fP donnée pour que
celle\-ci soit automatiquement invoquée lorsque le programme se
termine normalement avec
.BR exit (3)
ou par un retour de la fonction \fBmain\fP.
Les fonctions ainsi enregistrées sont invoquées en ordre inverse de
leur enregistrement, aucun argument n'est transmis.
.LP
Au moins ATEXIT_MAX fonctions peuvent être enregistrées. Cette valeur est
au moins 32. Elle peut être obtenue en utilisant
.BR sysconf (3).
.LP
Avec un appel réussi à l'une de ces fonctions,
tous les enregistrements sont annulés
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBatexit()\fP renvoie 0 si elle réussit, et une valeur non-nulle
si elle échoue.
.SH EXEMPLE
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <unistd.h>

void bye(void) {
        printf("That was all, folks\en");
}

int main(){
        long a;
        int i;

        a = sysconf(_SC_ATEXIT_MAX);
        printf("ATEXIT_MAX = %ld\en", a);

        i = atexit(bye);
        if (i != 0) {
                fprintf(stderr, "cannot set exit function\en");
                return EXIT_FAILURE;
        }
        return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
.fi
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899, POSIX 1003.1-2001
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR exit (3),
.BR _exit (3),
.BR on_exit (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
