.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:51:06 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 23/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" MàJ 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\"
.TH CTERMID 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
ctermid \- Obtenir le nom du terminal de contrôle.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "char *ctermid (char *" "s" );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.B ctermid()
renvoie une chaine de caractères correspondant au chemin d'accès au
fichier spécial du terminal contrôlant le processus en cours.
Si
.I s
vaut
.BR NULL ,
un buffer statique est utilisé pour renvoyer
la chaîne, sinon
.I s
doit pointer sur le buffer à remplir avec le nom du terminal.
La constante symbolique
.B L_ctermid
représente le nombre maximum de caratères dans le nom renvoyé.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Un pointeur sur le nom du terminal.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID, POSIX.1
.SH "BOGUES"
Le chemin renvoyé n'identifie pas obligatoirement le terminal de contrôle de
manière unique. Ce peut être par exemple :
.BR /dev/tty .
.PP
Il n'est pas garantit que le programme puisse ouvrir le terminal.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR ttyname (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
