.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fclose.3	6.7 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:19:14 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.\" Traduction 23/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" maj 09/04/99 - LDP-man-pages-1.22
.\" maj 30/08/2000 - LDP-man-pages-1.31
.\" Mise à jour 04/06/2001 - LDP-man-pages-1.36
.\" Mise à jour 25/01/2002 - LDP-man-pages-1.47
.\" MàJ 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.TH FCLOSE 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
fclose \- Fermer un flux.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fclose (FILE *" stream );
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.B fclose
dissocie le flux nommé
.I stream
du fichier sous-jacent. Si le flux était utilisé en sortie, toutes les
données contenues dans le buffer sont d'abord écrites, en utilisant
.BR fflush (3).
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Si la fonction réussit intégralement, elle renvoie 0,
sinon elle renvoie
.B EOF
et
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur. Dans tous les cas, tout autre
accès ultérieur au flux (y compris un autre appel de
.BR fclose "())"
conduit à un comportement indéfini.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EBADF
Le descripteur de fichier sous-jacent au
.I stream
n'est pas valide.
.\"  This error cannot occur unless you are mixing ANSI C stdio operations and
.\"  low-level file operations on the same stream. If you do get this error,
.\"  you must have closed the stream's low-level file descriptor using
.\"  something like close(fileno(fp)).
.PP
La fonction
.B fclose
peut également échouer et positionner
.I errno
avec l'une quelconque des erreurs décrites par
.BR close (2),
.BR write (2)
ou
.BR fflush (3).
.SH NOTES
Remarquez que
.B fclose
ne vide que les buffers fournis par la bibliothèque C dans l'espace utilisateur.
Pour s'assurer que les données sont écrites physiquement sur le disque, il faut
vider les buffers du noyau à l'aide par exemple de
.BR sync (2)
ou
.BR fsync (2).
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
La fonction
.B fclose
est conforme à ANSI X3.159-1989 (``ANSI C'').
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR close (2),
.BR fcloseall (3),
.BR fflush (3),
.BR fopen (3), 
.BR setbuf (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
