.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:38:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 23/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 08/07/2005 LDP-1.63
.\" Màj 20/07/2005 LDP-1.64
.\"
.TH FGETGRENT 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
fgetgrent \- Lire un fichier de groupes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <grp.h>
.sp
.BI "struct group *fgetgrent (FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBfgetgrent()\fP renvoie un pointeur sur une structure
contenant des informations sur un groupe, lues dans le fichier \fIstream\fP.
La première fois qu'elle est appelée, elle retourne le premier
enregistrement du fichier, puis les appels successifs renverront les
autres enregistrements.
Le fichier \fIstream\fP doit avoir le même format que \fI/etc/group\fP(5).
.PP
la structure \fIgroup\fP est définie dans \fI<grp.h>\fP ainsi\ :
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct group {
        char    *gr_name;        /* nom du groupe          */
        char    *gr_passwd;      /* mot de passe du groupe */
        gid_t   gr_gid;          /* ID du groupe           */
        char    **gr_mem;        /* membres du groupe      */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBfgetgrent()\fP renvoie une structure d'information sur un groupe,
ou NULL s'il n'y a plus d'enregistrement, ou si une erreur a eu lieu.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Pas assez de mémoire pour allouer la structure \fBgroup\fP.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID 3
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR endgrent (3),
.BR fgetgrent_r (3),
.BR getgrent (3),
.BR getgrgid (3),
.BR getgrnam (3),
.BR setgrent (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
