.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:37:37 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon May 27 22:40:48 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.\" Traduction 23/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 08/07/2005 LDP-1.63
.\" Màj 20/07/2005 LDP-1.64
.\"
.TH FGETPWENT 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
fgetpwent \- Lire un fichier de mots de passe.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <pwd.h>
.sp
.BI "struct passwd *fgetpwent (FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBfgetpwent()\fP renvoie une structure contenant les
différents champs d'une ligne du fichier \fIstream\fP.
Lors de la première invocation, elle renvoie le premier enregistrement,
ensuite elle retourne successivement tous les autres enregistrements du
fichier.
Le fichier \fIstream\fP doit avoir le même format que \fI/etc/passwd\fP(5).
.PP
La structure \fIpasswd\fP est définie dans \fI<pwd.h>\fP ainsi\ :
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct passwd {
        char    *pw_name;     /* Nom d'utilisateur       */
        char    *pw_passwd;   /* Mot de passe            */
        uid_t    pw_uid;      /* ID utilisateur          */
        gid_t    pw_gid;      /* ID groupe               */
        char    *pw_gecos;    /* Vrai nom                */
        char    *pw_dir;      /* Répertoire de connexion */
        char    *pw_shell;    /* Shell à la connexion    */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBfgetpwent()\fP renvoie la structure de mot de passe, ou NULL
si il n'y a plus d'enregistrement, ou si une erreur s'est produite.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Pas assez de mémoire pour allouer la structure.
.SH FICHIERS
.TP
.I /etc/passwd
Base de données des mots de passe
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID 3
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR fgetpwent_r (3),
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR getpwuid (3),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR setpwent (3),
.BR endpwent (3),
.BR getpw (3),
.BR putpwent (3),
.BR passwd (5).
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
