.\" Copyright 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traduction 25/04/2002 par Stéphan Rafin (stephan.rafin@laposte.net)
.\" MàJ 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\"

.TH FSEEKO 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
fseeko, ftello \- Fixer ou consulter la position courante d'un flux.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fseeko(FILE *" stream ", off_t " offset ", int " whence );
.sp
.BI "off_t ftello(FILE *" stream );
.BI 
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Les fonctions \fBfseeko()\fP et \fBftello()\fP sont respectivement identiques à
\fBfseek()\fP et \fBftell()\fP (voir
.BR fseek (3)),
 si ce n'est que l'argument \fIoffset\fP de \fBfseeko()\fP
et le code de retour de \fBftello()\fP sont de type \fBoff_t\fP 
au lieu de \fBlong\fP.
.LP
Sur de nombreuses architectures, \fBoff_t\fP tout comme \fBlong\fP sont des types 32 bits,
mais une compilation avec la directive
.RS
.nf
#define _FILE_OFFSET_BITS 64
.fi
.RE
changera \fBoff_t\fP en type 64 bits.
.SH NOTES
Ces fonctions apparaissent dans les systèmes SysV et apparentés.
Elles ne sont pas présentes dans la libc4, libc5 ou glibc 2.0 mais sont disponibles depuis la glibc 2.1.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
Les fonctions
.B fseeko
et
.B ftello
sont conformes à SUSv2.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR fseek (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
Stéphan Rafin, 2002.
