.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:32:25 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 26/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 08/07/2005 LDP-1.63
.\"
.TH GCVT 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
gcvt \- Conversion d'un réel en chaîne de caractères.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *gcvt (double " number ", size_t " ndigit ", char *" buf );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBgcvt()\fP convertit le réel \fInumber\fP en une chaîne de
caractères de longueur minimale, et terminée par un caractère nul. Le
résultat est stocké dans  \fIbuf\fP.  Elle produit \fIndigit\fP chiffres
significatifs soit avec le format «\ F\ » de
.BR printf (3),
soit avec le format «\ E\ ».
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBgcvt()\fP renvoie l'adresse de la chaîne de caractères
pointée par \fIbuf\fP.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR ecvt (3),
.BR fcvt (3),
.BR sprintf(3)

.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
