.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:23:25 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon May 27 21:37:47 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.\"
.\" Traduction 03/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Correction 13/11/97
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 20/07/2005 LDP-1.64
.\"
.TH GETPW 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
getpw \- Reconstruire un enregistrement de mot de passe.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <pwd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getpw (uid_t " uid ", char *" buf );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBgetpw()\fP reconstruit l'enregistrement de mot de passe
pour l'utilisateur \fIuid\fP et le place dans le tampon \fIbuf\fP.
Ce tampon contient en retour une ligne au format suivant\ :
.sp
.RS
.B name:passwd:uid:gid:gecos:dir:shell
.RE
.PP
.\" [Suppression par CB]
.\" La structure \fIpasswd\fP est définie dans \fI<pwd.h>\fP ainsi :
.\" .sp
.\" .RS
.\" .nf
.\" .ta 8n 16n 32n
.\" struct passwd {
.\"  char   *pw_name;   /* Nom d'utilisateur             */
.\"  char   *pw_passwd; /* Mot de passe                  */
.\"  uid_t   pw_uid;    /* ID de l'utilisateur           */
.\"  gid_t   pw_gid;    /* ID du groupe de l'utilisateur */
.\"  char   *pw_gecos;  /* Nom réel de l'utilisateur     */
.\"  char   *pw_dir;    /* Répertoire de connexion       */
.\"  char   *pw_shell;  /* Programme Shell de connexion  */
.\" };
.\" .ta
.\" .fi
.\" .RE
.\" [Fin suppression]
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBgetpw()\fP renvoie 0 si elle réussit, ou \-1 si elle échoue,
auquel cas \fIerrno\fP contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Pas assez de mémoire pour allouer la structure \fBpasswd\fP.
.\" [Ajout par CB]
.TP
.B ENOENT
Pas d'utilisateur correspondant à cet UID.
.\" [Fin ajout]
.SH FICHIERS
.TP
.I /etc/passwd
Base de données des mots de passe.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
SysVr2
.SH BOGUES
La fonction
.BR getpw ()
est dangereuse car elle peut provoquer un débordement du tampon
.IR buf .
Elle est rendue obsolète par
.BR getpwuid ().
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR fgetpwent (3),
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR setpwent (3),
.BR endpwent (3),
.BR getpwnam (3),
.BR getpwuid (3),
.BR putpwent (3),
.BR passwd (5)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
