.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 12:54:34 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:13:52 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 04/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" MàJ 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\"
.TH INDEX 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
index, rindex \- Recherche de caractères dans une chaîne.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *index (const char *" s ", int " c );
.sp
.BI "char *rindex (const char *" s ", int " c );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBindex()\fP renvoie un pointeur sur la première occurence du
caractère \fIc\fP dans la chaîne \fIs\fP.
.PP
La fonction \fBrindex()\fP renvoie un pointeur sur la dernière occurence du
caractère \fIc\fP dans la chaîne \fIs\fP.
.PP
Le caractère nul final est considéré comme faisant partie de la chaîne.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Les fonctions \fBindex()\fP et \fBrindex()\fP renvoient un pointeur sur le
caractère correspondant, ou NULL si le caractère n'est pas trouvé.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
BSD 4.3
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR memchr (3),
.BR strchr (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strrchr (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR strtok (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
