.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 12:49:57 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:56:22 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Wed Feb 20 21:09:36 2002, Ian Redfern (redferni@logica.com)
.\"
.\" Traduction 04/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 04/07/2005 LDP-1.61
.\"
.TH MEMCHR 3 "1er novembre 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
memchr \- Rechercher un caractère dans une zone mémoire.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "void *memchr (const void *" s ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memrchr(const void *" s ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.B memchr()
examine les \fIn\fP premiers octets de la zone
mémoire pointée par \fIs\fP à la recherche du caractère \fIc\fP.
Le premier octet correspondant à \fIc\fP (interprété comme un unsigned char)
arrête l'opération.
.PP
La fonction
.B memrchr()
travaille comme
.BR memchr() ,
sauf qu'elle
recherche en arrière depuis la fin de la zone de \fIn\fP octets
pointée par \fIs\fP plutôt que depuis le début.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Les fonctions \fBmemchr()\fP et \fBmemrchr()\fP renvoient un pointeur sur
l'octet correspondant, ou NULL si le caractère n'est pas présent dans la zone
de mémoire concernée.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
La fonction
.B memchr()
est conforme à SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899 et POSIX. La fonction
.B memrchr()
est une extension GNU disponible depuis la GlibC 2.1.91.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR index (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR strchr (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strrchr (3),
.BR strsep (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR wmemchr (3)


.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
