.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" Traduction Christophe Blaess, <ccb@club-internet.fr>
.\" MàJ 21/07/2003 LDP-1.57
.TH SETLOGMASK 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
setlogmask \- Fixer le masque de priorité de journalisation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <syslog.h>
.sp
.BI "int setlogmask(int " masque );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Chaque processus a un masque de priorité déterminant quels appels à
.BR syslog (3)
seront effectivement journalisés. Les autres appels seront ignorés.
La journalisation est activée pour les priorités ayant un bit
correspondant dans le
.IR masque .
Le masque initial valide toutes les priorités.
.LP
La fonction
.B setlogmask()
fixe le masque des priorités pour le processus appelant et
renvoie le masque précédent.
Si l'argument masque est 0, le masque en cours n'est pas modifié.
.LP
Les huit priorités sont LOG_EMERG, LOG_ALERT, LOG_CRIT, LOG_ERR,
LOG_WARNING, LOG_NOTICE, LOG_INFO et LOG_DEBUG.
Le bit correspondant à la priorité \fIp\fP est LOG_MASK(\fIp\fP).
Certains systèmes fournissent aussi une macro LOG_UPTO(\fIp\fP) pour le
masque de toutes les priorités jusqu'à \fIp\fP incluses.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction renvoie le masque de priorités précédent. 
.SH ERREURS
Aucunes.
.\" .SH NOTES
.\" The glibc logmask handling was broken in versions before glibc 2.1.1.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
XPG4.
Notez que la description de POSIX 1003.1-2001 est erroné.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR closelog (3),
.BR openlog (3),
.BR syslog (3)
.SH TRADUCTIONS
Christophe Blaess, 2003.
