.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:40:51 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Apr 14 16:20:34 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Traduction 07/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" MàJ 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\"
.TH SIGINTERRUPT 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
siginterrupt \- Permettre aux signaux d'interrompre les appels-système.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int siginterrupt (int " sig ", int " flag );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBsiginterrupt()\fP modifie le comportement d'un appel système
interrompu par le signal \fIsig\fP.  Si l'argument \fIflag\fP  vaut zéro,
l'appel système recommencera après la réception d'un signal \fIsig\fP.
C'est le comportement par défaut sous Linux.
Néanmoins, quand un nouveau gestionnaire de signaux est installé avec la
fonction \fBsignal\fP(2), l'appel système est interrompu par défaut.
.PP
Si l'argument \fIflags\fP vaut 1 et qu'aucun transfert de données n'a commencé,
un appel système interrompu renverra \-1 et la variable globale \fIerrno\fP
contiendra le code d'erreur \fBEINTR\fP.
.PP
Si flag \fIflags\fP vaut 1, et si un transfert de données a commencé, alors
l'appel système interrompu renverra le nombre réel de données transférées.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBsiginterrupt()\fP renvoie 0 si elle réussit, ou \-1 si le
numéro de signal \fIsig\fP est invalide.
.SH "ERREURS"
.TP
.B EINVAL
Le numéro de signal indique est invalide.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
BSD 4.3
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR signal (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
