.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995 James R. Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.\" Traduction 09/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 04/07/2005 LDP-1.61
.\"
.TH STPCPY 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
stpcpy \- Copier une chaîne en renvoyant un pointeur sur sa fin.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #define _GNU_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *stpcpy (char *" dest ", const char *" src );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBstpcpy()\fP copie la chaine pointée par \fIsrc\fP
(y compris le caractère «\ \e0\ » final) dans la chaine pointée par
\fIdest\fP.  Les deux chaînes ne doivent pas se chevaucher, et la chaîne
\fIdest\fP doit être assez grande pour accueillir la copie.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
\fBstpcpy()\fP renvoie un pointeur sur la \fBfin\fP de la chaîne
\fIdest\fP (c'est à dire l'adresse du caractère nul final)
au lieu du début.
.SH EXEMPLE
Par exemple, ce programme utilise \fBstpcpy\fP pour concaténer \fBfoo\fP et
\fBbar\fP produisant ainsi \fBfoobar\fP, qui est alors affichée.
.nf

   #include <string.h>

   int
   main (void)
   {
      char buffer [7];
      char *vers = buffer;
      vers = stpcpy (vers, "foo");
      vers = stpcpy (vers, "bar");
      printf ("%s\\n", buffer);
   }
.fi
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
Cette fonction ne fait partie ni du standard ANSI ni de POSIX, elle n'est
pas spécifique Unix, et n'est pas une extension GNU.
Peut-être vient-elle de l'environnement MS-DOS...
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR strcpy (3),
.BR bcopy (3),
.BR memccpy (3),
.BR memcpy (3),
.BR memmove (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
