.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:40:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 09/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" màj 25/04/98 (LDP man-pages 1.19)
.\" MàJ 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.TH STRCOLL 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
strcoll \- Comparaison de deux chaînes suivant la localisation en cours.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "int strcoll (const char *" s1 ", const char *" s2 );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBstrcoll()\fP compare les deux chaînes \fIs1\fP et \fIs2\fP.
Elle renvoie un entier négatif, nul, ou positif, si  \fIs1\fP
est respectivement inférieure, égale, ou supérieure à \fIs2\fP.
La comparaison est effectuée en se basant sur la localisation en cours
pour la catégorie \fILC_COLLATE\fP.  (Voir \fBsetlocale\fP(3)).
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBstrcoll()\fP renvoie un entier inférieur, égal ou supérieur
à zéro si \fIs1\fP est respectivement inférieure, égale ou supérieure
à \fIs2\fP, ces deux chaînes étant interprétées avec la localisation en cours.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH NOTES
Avec les localisations \fI"POSIX"\fP ou \fI"C"\fP, \fBstrcoll()\fP est
équivalente à \fBstrcmp()\fP.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR bcmp (3),
.BR memcmp (3),
.BR strcasecmp (3),
.BR strcmp (3),
.BR strxfrm (3),
.BR setlocale (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
