.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:06:49 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Aug 25 23:17:51 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Traduction 09/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\"	mise a jour 25/01/97
.\" Màj 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 04/07/2005 LDP-1.61
.\"
.TH STRCPY 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
strcpy, strncpy \- Copier une chaîne.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strcpy (char *" dest ", const char *" src );
.sp
.BI "char *strncpy (char *" dest ", const char *" src ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBstrcpy()\fP copie la chaîne pointée par \fIsrc\fP
(y compris le caractère «\ \e0\ » final) dans la chaîne pointée par
\fIdest\fP.  Les deux chaînes ne doivent pas se chevaucher. La chaîne
\fIdest\fP doit être assez grande pour accueillir la copie.
.PP
La fonction \fBstrncpy()\fP est identique, sauf que seuls les
\fIn\fP premiers octets de \fIsrc\fP sont copiés. Ainsi, s'il n'y a pas
de caractère nul dans les \fIn\fP premiers octets de \fIsrc\fP, la chaîne
résultante ne disposera de caractère nul final.
.PP
Dans le cas où la longueur de
.I src
est inférieure à
.IR n ,
la fin de
.I dest
sera remplie avec des caractères nuls.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Les fonctions \fBstrcpy()\fP et \fBstrncpy()\fP renvoient un pointeur
sur la chaîne destination \fIdest\fP.
.SH "BOGUES"
Si la chaîne destination de \fBstrcpy()\fP n'est pas assez grande
(c'est à dire si le programmeur est stupide ou paresseux et n'a pas
verifié la taille avant la copie) tout peut arriver\ !
Le débordement de chaîne de caractères de longueur fixée est l'une
des techniques préférées des pirates. Les caractères en excès peuvent
en effet déborder dans une zone de code ou de pile, et être interprétés
comme des instructions, qui seront exécutées avec l'UID du programme.
Il s'agit d'un moyen classique d'obtenir un accès «\ root\ » avec les
programmes Set-UID système.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR bcopy (3),
.BR memccpy (3),
.BR memcpy (3),
.BR memmove (3),
.BR wcscpy (3),
.BR wcsncpy (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
