.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:41:34 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traduction 09/11/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Mise à jour 26/01/2002 - LDP-man-pages-1.47
.\" MàJ 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.TH STRDUP 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
strdup, strndup, strdupa, strndupa \- Dupliquer une chaîne.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char * strdup (const char *" s );
.sp
.B #define _GNU_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char * strndup (const char *" s ", size_t " n );
.br
.BI "char * strdupa (const char *" s );
.br
.BI "char * strndupa (const char *" s ", size_t " n );
.sp
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction \fBstrdup()\fP renvoie un pointeur sur une nouvelle chaîne
de caractères qui est dupliquée depuis \fIs\fP. La mémoire occupée par
cette nouvelle chaîne est obtenue en appelant \fBmalloc\fP(3),
et peut (doit) donc être libérée avec \fBfree\fP(3).
.PP
La fonction \fBstrndup()\fP est identique, mais ne copie au plus que
\fIn\fP caractères. Si \fIs\fP est plus grande que \fIn\fP, seuls \fIn\fP
caractères sont copiés, et un caractère NUL est ajouté.
 
\fBstrdupa\fP et \fBstrndupa\fP sont similaires, mais utilisent \fBalloca(3)\fP
pour allouer le buffer. Elles sont directement utilisables avec
GNUGCC, mais souffrent des mêmes restrictions que \fBalloca(3)\fP.

.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction \fBstrdup()\fP renvoie un pointeur sur la chaîne dupliquée,
ou NULL s'il n'y avait pas assez de mémoire.
.SH "ERREURS"
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Pas assez de mémoire disponible pour dupliquer la chaîne.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3.
\fBstrndup()\fP, \fBstrdupa()\fP, et \fBstrndupa()\fP sont des extensions GNU.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR alloca (3),
.BR calloc (3),
.BR free (3),
.BR malloc (3),
.BR realloc (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
Christophe Blaess, 1996-2003.
