.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traduction 20/05/2002 par Stéphan Rafin (stephan.rafin@laposte.net)
.\"
.\" MàJ 21/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.TH TIMEGM 3 "21 juillet 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
timegm, timelocal \- Fonctions réciproques de gmtime and localtime.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "time_t timelocal (struct tm *" tm );
.sp
.BI "time_t timegm (struct tm *" tm );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Les fonctions 
.B timelocal()
et
.B timegm()
sont les réciproques de
.BR localtime (3)
et
.BR gmtime (3).
.SH NOTES
Ces fonctions sont des extensions GNU.
La fonction 
.B timelocal()
est équivalente à la fonction standard POSIX
.BR mktime (3).
Il n'y a aucune raison de l'utiliser.
.LP
Afin d'obtenir une version portable de
.BR timegm() ,
positionnez la variable d'environnement
.B TZ
à UTC, appelez
.B mktime()
et restaurez la valeur de 
.BR TZ .
Soit un code similaire à 

.RS
.nf
#include <time.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

time_t my_timegm (struct tm *tm) {
    time_t ret;
    char *tz;

    tz = getenv("TZ");
    setenv("TZ", "", 1);
    tzset();
    ret = mktime(tm);
    if (tz)
        setenv("TZ", tz, 1);
    else
        unsetenv("TZ");
    tzset();
    return ret;
}
.fi
.RE
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR gmtime (3),
.BR localtime (3),
.BR mktime (3),
.BR tzset (3)
.SH TRADUCTION
Stéphan Rafin, 2002.
