.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" This man-page is Copyright (C) 1997 John S. Kallal
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" correction, aeb, 970825
.\" Traduction 31/05/1998 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" LDP-man-pages-1.19
.\" Màj 25/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH FULL 4 "2 août 1997" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
full \- Périphérique toujours plein.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Le fichier \fB/dev/full\fP a un numéro de périphérique majeur valant 1
et un numéro mineur valant 7.
.LP
Les écritures vers le périphérique \fB/dev/full\fP échouent toujours
avec l'erreur ENOSPC.

Les lectures depuis le périphérique \fB/dev/full\fP renvoient toujours
des caractères \\0.

Les positionnements (avec seek) sur \fB/dev/full\fP réussissent toujours.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Si votre système ne dispose pas encore du fichier \fB/dev/full\fP, vous
pouvez le créer avec les commandes suivantes\ :
.nf

        mknod -m 666 /dev/full c 1 7
        chown root:root /dev/full

.fi
.SH FICHIERS
/dev/full
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR mknod (1),
.BR null (4),
.BR zero (4)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 31\ mai\ 19986
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 4\ full\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
