.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)operator.7	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\"
.\" Copied shamelessly from FreeBSD with minor changes. 2003-05-21
.\"     Brian M. Carlson <sandals@crustytoothpaste.ath.cx>
.\"
.\" Restored automatic formatting from FreeBSD.  2003-08-24
.\"	Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\"
.\" Traduction : Alain Portal
.\" 27/06/2005 LDP-1.60
.\"
.Dd 24 août 2003
.Dt OPERATOR 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Opérateurs C
.Nd Ordre de priorité et d'évaluation des opérateurs C
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Cette page de manuel liste les opérateurs C et leur priorité dans l'évaluation.
.Bd -ragged -offset indent -compact
.Bl -column "= += -= *= /= %= <<= >>= &= ^= |="
.It Sy "Opérateur	 Associativité"
.It "---------	 -------------"
.It "\&() [] -> .	gauche à droite"
.It "\&! ~ ++ -- - (type) * & sizeof	droite à gauche"
.It "\&* / %	gauche à droite"
.It "\&+ -	gauche à droite"
.It "\&<< >>	gauche à droite"
.It "\&< <= > >=	gauche à droite"
.It "\&== !=	gauche à droite"
.It "\&&	gauche à droite"
.It "\&^	gauche à droite"
.It "\&|	gauche à droite"
.It "\&&&	gauche à droite"
.It "\&||	gauche à droite"
.It "\&?:	droite à gauche"
.It "\&= += -= *= /= %= <<= >>= &= ^= |=	droite à gauche"
.It "\&,	gauche à droite"
.El
.Ed
.\"

.Sh TRADUCTION
.Pp
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Alain Portal
<aportal AT univ-montp2 DOT fr> le 15 juin 2005.
.Pp
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 7\ operator\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.

