.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Traduction : Alain Portal
.\" 23/11/2004 LDP-1.58.1
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:19:57 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH INTRO 6 "24 juillet 1993" "Linux" "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
intro \- Introduction aux jeux
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cette section décrit tous les jeux et autres petits programmes amusants
disponible sur le système.
.SH AUTEURS
Regardez l'en-tête de la page de manuel où figurent le(s) auteur(s) et les
conditions de copyright. Veuillez noter qu'ils peuvent être différents d'une
page à l'autre\ !

.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Alain Portal
<aportal AT univ-montp2 DOT fr> le 23\ novembre\ 2004
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 6\ intro\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
