.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 2002-04-15 by Roger Luethi <rl@hellgate.ch> and aeb
.\"
.\" Traduction  10/10/1996 Christophe BLAESS (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH GETDTABLESIZE 2 "15 avril 2002" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
getdtablesize \- Lire la taille de la table des descripteurs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int getdtablesize(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B getdtablesize
retourne le nombre maximal de fichiers qu'un processus puisse ouvrir
simultanément.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Le numéro du plus grand descripteur possible plus un.
.SH NOTES
.B getdtablesize
est implémentée comme fonction de bibliothèque. La version de la glibc appelle
.BR getrlimit (2)
et renvoie la valeur de la limite
.B RLIMIT_NOFILE
actuelle, ou
.B OPEN_MAX
si cela échoue.
Les versions des bibliothèques libc4 et libc5 renvoyaient
.B OPEN_MAX
(256 depuis Linux 0.98.4).
.SH CONFORMITÉ
SVr4, 4.4BSD (l'appel système
.B getdtablesize
est apparu pour la première fois dans BSD 4.2).
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR close (2),
.BR dup (2),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR open (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 10\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ getdtablesize\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
