.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Mon Aug 25 16:26:16 1997 by Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\"
.\" Traduction  10/10/1996 Christophe BLAESS (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 26/06/2000 LDP 1.30
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP 1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH GETDOMAINNAME 2 "25 août 1997" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
getdomainname, setdomainname \- Lire ou fixer le nom de domaine.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getdomainname(char *" name ", size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int setdomainname(const char *" name ", size_t " len );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Ces deux fonctions servent à lire ou à changer le nom de domaine de
l'hôte concerné.
Si le nom de domaine, suivi d'un caractère nul, nécessite plus de \fIlen\fP octets
pour être stocké,
.BR getdomainname (),
renvoie les \fIlen\fP premiers octets (glibc), ou une erreur (libc).
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.BR getdomainname " et " setdomainname
renvoient 0 s'ils réussissent, ou \-1 s'ils échouent, auquel cas
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EINVAL
Avec
.BR getdomainname
et la Libc\ :
.I name
est
.B NULL
ou
.I name
est plus long que
.IR len .
.TP
.B EINVAL
Avec
.BR setdomainname "()\ :"
.I len
est négatif ou trop grand.
.TP
.B EPERM
Pour
.BR setdomainname "()\ :"
l'utilisateur n'est pas le super-utilisateur.
.TP
.B EFAULT
Pour
.BR setdomainname (),
.I name
pointe en dehors de l'espace d'adressage disponible.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
Cette fonction n'est
.B pas
spécifiée par POSIX.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR gethostname (2),
.BR sethostname (2),
.BR uname (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 10\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ getdomainname\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
