.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Updated with additions from Mitchum DSouza (m.dsouza@mrc-apu.cam.ac.uk)
.\" Portions Copyright 1993 Mitchum DSouza (m.dsouza@mrc-apu.cam.ac.uk)
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" Traduction  10/10/1996 Christophe BLAESS (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 08/04/1997
.\" Màj 19/07/1997
.\" Màj 30/05/2001 LDP-1.36
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH GETHOSTID 2 "29 novembre 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
gethostid, sethostid \- Lire/écrire l'identifiant unique de l'hôte.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B long gethostid (void);
.br
.BI "int sethostid (long " hostid );
.SH DESCRIPTION
Lit ou écrit un identifiant unique sur 32 bits pour la station utilisée.
Cet identificateur est censé être unique pour l'ensemble des stations
UNIX existantes. Il correspond généralement à l'adresse Internet de
la machine locale, comme renvoyé par
.BR gethostbyname (3),
et est normalement fixé une fois pour toutes.

L'appel de
.B sethostid
est bien sûr limité au super-utilisateur.

L'argument
.I hostid
est mémorisé dans le fichier
.IR /etc/hostid .
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.B gethostid
retourne l'identifiant sur 32 bits de l'hôte, tel qu'il
a été positionné par
.BR sethostid (2).
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
4.2BSD.  Ces fonctions ont été abandonnées dans 4.4BSD.
POSIX.1 ne définit pas ces fonctions, mais ISO/IEC 9945\-1:1990 les
mentionne au paragraphe B.4.4.1. SVr4 contient
.B gethostid
mais pas
.BR sethostid .
.SH FICHIERS
.I /etc/hostid
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR hostid (1),
.BR gethostbyname (3).
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 15\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ gethostid\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
