.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified, 2003-05-26, Michael Kerrisk, <mtk16@ext,canterbury.ac.nz>
.\"
.\" Traduction 21/07/1997 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 25/04/1998 LDP-1.19
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 25/07/2003 LDP-1.57
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH GETRESUID 2 "26 mai 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
getresuid, getresgid \- Obtenir les UIDs ou les GIDs réels, effectifs et sauvés.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #define _GNU_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getresuid(uid_t *" ruid ", uid_t *" euid ", uid_t *" suid );
.br
.BI "int getresgid(gid_t *" rgid ", gid_t *" egid ", gid_t *" sgid );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B getresuid
et
.B getresgid
(tous deux introduits dans Linux 2.1.44)
permettent d'obtenir les UIDs (respectivement GIDs) réels, effectifs et sauvés
du processus appelant.

.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Les appels
.B getresuid
et
.B getresgid
renvoient 0 s'ils réussissent, ou \-1 s'ils échouent auquel cas \fIerrno\fP
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EFAULT
L'un des arguments pointe en dehors de l'espace d'adressage accessible.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
Cet appel système est spécifique a Linux.
Le prototype est founi par la glibc depuis la version 2.3.2, à condition que
la constante _GNU_SOURCE soit définie.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR getuid (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR getreuid (2),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setresuid (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 21\ juillet\ 1997
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ getresuid\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
