.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2003 Abhijit Menon-Sen <ams@wiw.org>
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traduction Christophe Blaess
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 - LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH GETTID 2 "1er février 2003" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
gettid \- Obtenir l'identificateur de thread.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.B _syscall0(pid_t,gettid)
.sp
.B pid_t gettid(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gettid
renvoie l'identificateur de thread (TID) du processus appelant. Il est équivalent
à l'identificateur de processus (PID) renvoyé par
.BR getpid (2),
sauf si le processus est membre d'un groupe de threads (créés en spécifiant
l'attribut CLONE_THREAD de l'appel-système
.BR clone (2)).
Tous les processus du même groupe de threads ont le même
PID, mais chacun a un TID unique.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
.BR gettid ()
est spécifique à Linux et ne doit pas être employé dans un programme conçu
pour être portable.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR getpid (2),
.BR clone (2),
.BR fork (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 18\ juillet\ 2003
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ gettid\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
