.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from linux/mm/swap.c:
.\"                Copyright (C) 1991, 1992  Linus Torvalds
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 21 Aug 1994 by Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com):
.\"   Added text about calling restriction (new in kernel 1.1.20 I believe).
.\"   N.B. calling "idle" from user process used to hang process!
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 14:41:15 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" Traduction 14/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 08/04/1997
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH IDLE 2 "21 août 1994" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
idle \- Rendre le processus 0 inactif.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B void idle(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B idle
est un appel système interne, utilisé pendant le démarrage du système.
Il sert à rendre swappables les pages du processus, à abaisser sa
priorité, et entrer dans la boucle principale de l'ordonnanceur.
.B idle
ne retourne jamais.
.PP
Seul le processus 0 peut appeler
.BR idle .
Tout processus utilisateur, même avec les privilèges de super-utilisateur
déclenchera l'erreur
.BR EPERM
s'il tente d'appeler
.BR idle.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.B idle
ne retourne jamais lorsqu'il est appelé par le processus 0,
et renvoie toujours \-1 aux processus utilisateurs.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EPERM
Toujours déclenchée pour un processus utilisateur.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
Cette fonction est spécifique à Linux.
.SH NOTES
Depuis le noyau 2.3.13, cet appel système n'existe plus.
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 14\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ idle\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
