.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)killpg.2	6.5 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 21:55:01 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 08:11:14 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" Traduction  11/10/1996 Christophe BLAESS (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 08/04/1997
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH KILLPG 2 "23 juillet 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
killpg \- Envoyer un signal à un groupe de processus.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int killpg(int " pgrp ", int " sig );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Killpg
envoie le signal
.I sig
au groupe de processus
.IR pgrp.
Voir
.BR sigaction (2)
pour la liste des signaux.
Si
.I pgrp
vaut 0,
.B killpg
envoie le signal au groupe de processus du processus appelant.

Le processus appelant et les membres du groupe de processus
destinataire doivent avoir le même UID effectif, ou l'appelant
doit être le super-utilisateur. La seule exception est le signal de continuation
.B SIGCONT
qui peut être émis vers n'importe quel processus descendant de l'appelant.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.BR killpg
renvoie 0 si il réussit, ou \-1 s'il échoue, auquel cas
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I Sig
n'est pas un numéro de signal valide.
.TP
.B ESRCH
Aucun processus n'appartient au groupe
.IR pgrp .
.TP
.B ESRCH
On a voulu émettre vers le groupe 0, mais le processus en cours
n'appartient pas à un groupe.
.TP
.B EPERM
L'appelant n'est pas le super-utilisateur, et il y a au moins un processus
du groupe destinataire dont l'UID effectif ne correspond pas à celui
de l'appelant.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
SVr4, BSD 4.4 (la fonction
.B killpg
est apparue dans BSD 4.0).
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR kill (2),
.BR getpgrp (2),
.BR signal (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 11\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ killpg\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
