.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:48:00 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby (mib@deakin.edu.au)
.\" Modified 2000 by aeb, following Michael Kerrisk
.\"
.\" Traduction  10/10/1996 Christophe BLAESS (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 08/04/1997
.\" Màj 04/06/2001 LDP-1.36
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 14/12/2005 LDP-1.65
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH PAUSE 2 "31 août 1995" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
pause \- Attendre un signal.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include<unistd.h>
.sp
.B int pause(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction de bibliothèque
.B pause
force le processus (ou le thread) appelant à s'endormir jusqu'à
ce qu'un signal soit reçu, qui le termine ou lui fasse invoquer
une fonction de gestionnaire de signal.
.\" Un appel à
.\" .B pause
.\" endort le processus appelant jusqu'à ce qu'il reçoive un signal.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La fonction
.B pause
ne revient que lorsqu'un signal a été intercepté et que le gestionnaire
s'est terminé. Dans ce cas
.B pause
renvoie \-1 et
.I errno
est positionné à la valeur
.\" .BR ERESTARTNOHAND .
.BR EINTR .
.SH ERREUR
.TP
.B EINTR
Un signal a été intercepté et le gestionnaire s'est terminé.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR kill (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR signal (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 10\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ pause\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
