.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 23:25:42 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 17:23:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" Traduction 10/10/1996 Christophe BLAESS (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 08/04/1997
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH PIPE 2 "23 juillet 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
pipe \- Créer un tube.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int pipe(int " filedes "[2]);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pipe
crée une paire de descripteurs de fichiers, pointant sur un i\-noeud de
tube, et les place dans un tableau
.IR filedes .
.I filedes[0]
est utilisé pour la lecture, et
.I filedes[1]
pour l'écriture.

En général, deux processus (créés par fork) vont se partager le tube
et utiliser les fonctions
.BR read
et
.BR write
pour se transmettre des données.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.BR pipe
renvoie 0 s'il réussit, ou \-1 s'il échoue, auquel cas
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B EMFILE
Trop de descripteurs de fichiers sont utilisés par le processus.
.TP
.B ENFILE
La table système pour les tubes est pleine.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I filedes
est invalide.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
SVr4, SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR socketpair (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 10\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ pipe\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
