.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)readlink.2	6.8 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 00:10:21 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Tue Jul  9 23:55:17 1996 by aeb
.\" Modified Fri Jan 24 00:26:00 1997 by aeb
.\"
.\" Traduction  12/10/1996 Christophe BLAESS (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 08/04/1997
.\" Màj 10/12/1997 LDP-1.18
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH READLINK 2 "21 août 1997" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
readlink \- Lire le contenu d'un lien symbolique.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int readlink(const char *" path ", char *" buf ", size_t " bufsiz );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B readlink
place le contenu d'un lien symbolique
.I path
dans le tampon
.IR buf ,
lequel doit contenir au moins
.I bufsiz
octets.
.B readlink
n'ajoute pas de caractère
.B NUL
dans le tampon
.IR buf .
Il tronquera le contenu (à la longueur
.IR bufsiz )
si le tampon est trop petit pour recevoir les données.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.B readlink
renvoie le nombre de caractères lus, ou \-1 s'il échoue,
auquel cas
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
Un élément du chemin d'accès n'est pas un répertoire.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I bufsiz
n'est pas positif.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I path
ou l'un des composants de ce chemin d'accès est trop long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
Le fichier indiqué n'existe pas.
.TP
.B EACCES
Un élément du chemin d'accès ne permet pas la recherche.
.TP
.B ELOOP
.I pathn
contient une référence circulaire (à travers un lien symbolique).
.TP
.B EINVAL
Le fichier n'est pas un lien symbolique.
.TP
.B EIO
Une erreur d'entrée-sortie s'est produite durant la lecture.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I Buf
pointe en-dehors de l'espace d'adressage accessible.
.B ENOMEM
Pas assez de mémoire pour le noyau.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
X/OPEN, BSD 4.4 (la fonction
.B readlink
est apparue dans BSD 4.2).
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR stat (2),
.BR lstat (2),
.BR symlink (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 12\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ readlink\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
