.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     $Id: shutdown.2,v 1.1.1.1 1999/03/21 22:52:23 freitag Exp $
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:57:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:04:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998 by Andi Kleen
.\"
.\" Traduction 13/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 15/04/1997
.\" Màj 20/01/2002 LDP-1.47
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH SHUTDOWN 2 "24 juillet 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
shutdown \- Terminer une commnication en full-duplex.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int shutdown(int " s ", int " how );
.SH DESCRIPTION
La fonction
.I shutdown
termine tout ou partie d'une connexion full-duplex sur la socket
.IR s .
Si
.I how
vaut
.BR SHUT_RD ,
la réception est désactivée. Si
.I how
vaut
.BR SHUT_WR ,
l'émission est désactivée. Si
.I how
vaut
.BR SHUT_RDWR ,
l'emission et la réception sont désactivées.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.BR shutdown
renvoie 0 s'il réussit, ou \-1 s'il échoue, auquel cas
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
.TP
.TP
.B EBADF
.I s
n'est pas un descripteur valide.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
.I s
est un fichier, pas une socket.
.TP
.B ENOTCONN
La socket
.I s
n'est pas connectée.
.SH NOTES
Les constantes SHUT_RD, SHUT_WR, SHUT_RDWR ont pour valeur 0, 1, et 2
respectivement, et sont définies dans
.I <sys/socket.h>
depuis la glibc-2.1.91.
.SH CONFORMITÉ
BSD 4.4, la fonction
.B shutdown
est apparue dans BSD 4.2.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR connect (2),
.BR socket (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 13\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ shutdown\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
