.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:02:47 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 15 Apr 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com):
.\"   Added reference to 'bdflush(2)'.
.\" Modified 960414 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>:
.\"   Added the fact that since 1.3.20 sync actually waits.
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:27:07 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2001-10-10 by aeb, following Michael Kerrisk.
.\"
.\" Traduction 15/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 15/04/1997
.\" Màj 20/01/2002 LDP-1.47
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH SYNC 2 "10 octobre 2001" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
sync \- Vider le tampon cache sur le disque.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B void sync(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sync
synchronise d'abord les i\-noeuds et les tampons, puis les tampons et le disque.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVr4, SVID, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH BOGUES
D'après les standards (p. ex. SVID)
\fBsync()\fP
ne fait que planifier les écritures, il peut donc revenir
avant que la véritable synchronisation ne soit effectuée.
Depuis la version 1.3.20, Linux attend effectivement la fin
de l'écriture (néanmoins ceci ne garantit toujours pas l'intégrité
des données, les disques modernes ont des tampons cache très grands).
.SH NOTES
Depuis la GlibC 2.2.2 le prototype sous Linux est celui indiqué plus haut,
ce qui correspond à divers standards. Dans les libc4, libc5, et GlibC jusqu'à 2.2.1
c'était «\ int sync(void)\ », et sync renvoyait toujours 0.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR bdflush (2),
.BR fsync (2),
.BR fdatasync (2),
.BR update (8),
.BR sync (8)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 15\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ sync\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
