.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)syscall.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/16/93
.\"
.\"
.\" 2002-03-20  Christoph Hellwig <hch@infradead.org>
.\"	- adopted for Linux
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56  C.Blaess
.\" Màj 27/06/2005 LDP-1.60
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH SYSCALL 2 "16 juin 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
syscall \- Appel système indirect.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/syscall.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.I int
.BI "syscall (" "int numero" "...)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B syscall
réalise l'appel système dont l'interface en assembleur est indiqué
par le
.I numero
avec les arguments spécifiés.
Les constantes symboliques des appels systèmes sont listées dans le
fichier d'en-tête
.IR <sys/syscall.h> .
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
La valeur renvoyée dépend de l'appel-système invoqué.
En général, la valeur 0 indique que l'appel système s'est bien déroulé
tandis qu'une valeur de \-1 indique qu'une erreur s'est produite et que
le code de l'erreur est stocké dans
.IR errno .
.SH BOGUES
Il n'y a aucun moyen d'implémenter un appel système qui possède
plusieurs valeurs de retour tel que
.BR pipe (2).
.SH HISTORIQUE
La fonction
.B syscall
est apparue dans BSD 4.0.
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Thierry Vignaud
<tvignaud AT mandriva DOT com> en 2002
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ syscall\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
