.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:51:53 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:39:04 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Thu May  1 06:05:54 UTC 1997 by Nicolás Lichtmaier
.\"  <nick@debian.com> with Lars Wirzenius <liw@iki.fi> suggestion
.\"
.\" Traduction 15/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 15/04/1997
.\" Màj 11/12/1997 LDP-1.18
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH UMASK 2 "9 aoûT 1998" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
umask \- Fixer le masque de création de fichiers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.BI "mode_t umask(mode_t " mask );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B umask
fixe le masque de création de fichiers à la valeur
.I mask
& 0777.

Ce masque est utilisé par
.BR open (2)
pour positionner les permissions d'accès initiales sur les fichiers
nouvellement créés.
Les bits contenus dans le umask sont éliminés de l'argument
\fBmode\fP de l'appel
.BR open (2).
Par exemple, la valeur par défaut 022 pour le umask fournit une autorisation
d'accès 0666 & ~022 = 0644 = rw-r--r-- dans le cas où le \fBmode\fP vaut 0666).
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
Cet appel système n'échoue jamais, et la valeur précédente du masque
est renvoyée.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR creat (2),
.BR open (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 15\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ umask\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
