.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:34:48 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:59:17 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" Traduction 15/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 15/04/1997
.\" Màj 26/06/2000 LDP 1.30
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP 1.56
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH USELIB 2 "24 juillet 1993" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
uselib \- Sélectionner une bibliothèque partagée.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int uselib(const char *" library );
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBuselib\fP sélectionne la bibliothèque partagée
dont le fichier binaire est
.I library
pour qu'elle soit utilisée par le processus appelant.
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.B uselib
renvoie 0 s'il réussit, \-1 s'il échoue auquel cas
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
En plus de toutes les erreurs déclenchées par
.BR open (2)
et
.BR mmap (2),
les erreurs suivantes peuvent se produire\ :
.TP
.B ENOEXEC
Le fichier décrit par
.I library
n'est pas exécutable ou n'a pas le bon nombre magique.
.TP
.B EACCES
La bibliothèque indiquée par
.I library
n'est pas accessible en lecture.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
\fBuselib()\fP est spécifique à Linux et ne doit pas être employé
dans des programmes destinés à être portables.
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR ar (1),
.BR gcc (1),
.BR ld (1),
.BR ldd (1),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR ld.so (8)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 15\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ uselib\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
