.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (u31b3hs@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:03:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Traduction 15/10/1996 par Christophe Blaess (ccb@club-internet.fr)
.\" Màj 15/04/1997
.\" Màj 18/07/2003 LDP-1.56
.\" Màj 23/12/2005 LDP-1.67
.\" Màj 01/05/2006 LDP-1.67.1
.\"
.TH UTIME 2 "10 juin 1995" LDP "Manuel du programmeur Linux"
.SH NOM
utime, utimes \- Changer la date d'accès ou de modification d'un i\-noeud.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <utime.h>
.sp
.BI "int utime(const char *" filename ", const struct utimbuf *" buf );
.sp 2
.B #include <sys/time.h>
.sp
.BI "int utimes(char *" filename ", struct timeval *" tvp );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B utime
change les dates d'accès et de modification de l'i\-noeud indiqué par
.I filename
pour les valeurs contenues respectivement dans les champs
.IR actime " et " modtime
de
.IR buf .
Si
.I buf
est
.BR NULL ,
les dates d'accès et de modification sont mises à la date actuelle.
La structure
.I utimbuf
est la suivante\ :

.RS
.nf
struct utimbuf {
        time_t actime;  /* heure d'accès  */
        time_t modtime; /* heure de modification */
};
.fi
.RE

Dans la bibliothèque DLL Linux 4.4.1
.B utimes
est juste un recouvrement de
.BR utime "\ :"
.IR tvp [0]. tv_sec
est égal à
.IR actime ,
et
.IR tvp [1]. tv_sec
est égal à
.IR modtime .
La structure
.I timeval
est la suivante\ :

.RS
.nf
struct timeval {
        long    tv_sec;         /* secondes      */
        long    tv_usec;        /* microsecondes */
};
.fi
.RE
.SH "VALEUR RENVOYÉE"
.BR utime " et " utimes
renvoient 0 s'ils réussissent ou \-1 s'ils échouent auquel cas
.I errno
contient le code d'erreur.
.SH ERREURS
Plusieurs erreurs peuvent se produire, les plus courantes étant\ :
.TP
.B EACCES
L'accès en écriture au fichier est interdit.
.TP
.B ENOENT
.I filename
n'existe pas.
.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
.BR utime "\ :"
SVr4, SVID, POSIX. SVr4 mentionne les conditions d'erreur supplémentaires
EFAULT, EINTR, ELOOP, EMULTIHOP, ENAMETOOLONG, ENOLINK, ENOTDIR, EPERM, EROFS.
.br
.BR utimes "\ :"
BSD 4.3
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR stat (2)
.SH TRADUCTION
.PP
Ce document est une traduction réalisée par Christophe Blaess
<http://www.blaess.fr/christophe/> le 15\ octobre\ 1996
et révisée le 2\ mai\ 2006.
.PP
L'équipe de traduction a fait le maximum pour réaliser une adaptation
française de qualité. La version anglaise la plus à jour de ce document est
toujours consultable via la commande\ : «\ \fBLANG=en\ man\ 2\ utime\fR\ ».
N'hésitez pas à signaler à l'auteur ou au traducteur, selon le cas, toute
erreur dans cette page de manuel.
