.\" Traduction 07/08/2000 par Frédéric Delanoy (delanoy_f@yahoo.com)
.\" (diffutils v2.7.2)
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)cmp.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" MàJ 30/07/2003 diffutils-2.8.1
.TH CMP 1 "30 juillet 2003" "diffutils" "Manuel de l'utilisateur Linux"
.SH "NOM"
\fBcmp\fR \- Comparer deux fichiers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcmp\fI [\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-s\fR] \fIfichier1\fR \fIfichier2\fR
[\fIdécal1\fR[\fIdécal2\fR]]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
L'utilitaire
.B cmp
compare deux fichiers de type quelconque et écrit le résultat sur la sortie
standard. Par défaut,
.B cmp
est silencieux si les fichiers sont identiques\ ; s'ils diffèrent, les
numéros d'octet et de ligne de la première différence détectée sont
rapportés.

Les octets et les lignes sont numérotés en commençant à un.

Les options suivantes sont disponibles\ :

.PD 0
.TP 0.6i
.B "\-l"
Afficher le numéro d'octet (en décimal) et les valeurs (octales) des
octets pour chaque différence.

.TP 0.6i
.B "\-s"
Ne rien afficher pour les fichiers différents, retourner uniquement
l'état de sortie.

.TP 0i
Les arguments optionnels \fIdécal1\fR et \fIdécal2\fR sont les
décalages d'octets par rapport au début de \fIfichier1\fR et de
\fIfichier2\fR respectivement, où la comparaison commencera. Le
décalage est décimal par défaut, mais peut être exprimé par une valeur
hexadécimale ou octale en le préfixant par un «\ 0x\ » ou un «\ 0\ ».

L'utilitaire \fBcmp\fR se termine par l'une des valeurs suivantes\ :

.TP 0.6i
0
Les fichiers sont identiques.

.TP 0.6i
1
Les fichiers sont différents\ ; ceci inclut le cas où un fichier est
identique à la première partie de l'autre.
Dans ce dernier cas, si l'option
.Fl s
n'a pas été spécifiée, \fBcmp\fR écrit sur la sortie standard que EOF
a été atteint dans le fichier le plus court (avant qu'une seule
différence ne soit trouvée).

.TP 0.6i
>1
Une erreur s'est produite.

.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.BR diff (1),
.BR diff3 (1)

.SH "CONFORMITÉ"
L'utilitaire \fBcmp\fR est conçu pour être compatible à la norme IEEE
1003.2 («\ POSIX.2\ »).

.SH "TRADUCTION"
Frédéric Delanoy <\fIdelanoy_f at yahoo.com\fR>, 2000-2003.
